What You Are Doing Now

 
What kind of system is there in place currently to keep track of and manage volunteers and schedules?
Excel spreadsheets on Google sheets.
Sheet on what each volunteer can do

How many volunteers are there? Do we have any idea of any increase/decrease in the number of volunteers in the near future?
Around 80 volunteers
Steady 60-90
 
How many people volunteer regularly? Do you have a system which tracks who shows up?
Couldn’t tell
50-60 volunteer monthly
Try to keep track of unreliable (all in her head)
 
What is the primary form of communication with the volunteers? How do you contact volunteers if you need volunteers urgently?
Call off. Some don’t have email addresses.
Group email to everybody and go through list in her head and send texts
 
Are people allowed to do partial shifts?
Only full block shifts
 
Have you tried other scheduling software before?
Just the Excel sheets
 
How do you keep track of the information on your volunteers?
Excel spreadsheet: two
-       volunteer roster with contact details
-       preferences for what schedule they prefer
Would like to keep track of distance from their addresses
 
 
 
What Do You Want the System to Do

Who is the user for the software?
Just Mollie
 
Would you want volunteers to be able to change any part of the schedule (canceling appointments, changing appointments, etc. )?
Don’t know how many would want to check
Maybe a reminder (email or text) 24 hours before their schedule
 
Do you want remote access?
Something cloud-like
 
Do they want this on the web? (The existing website is a free hosting site)
Mostly work from home
 
Ask about the nature of the system (automatic vs manual)
 
Do you need a database of profiles for volunteers?
That would be great
Contact information, schedule patterns, skills, etc.
A photo(?)
 
What important information about the volunteers do you want on it? (phone #, address, email,...)
A calendar-like program that we can send to volunteers
 
 
People’s credentials and to what extent they matter in scheduling (i.e. CPR, first-aid, distance from shelter)
 
What should the user interface look like?
Vacant shift—see who is available.
 
 If we think there is existing software that could do part of this job, do you have any budgetary restrictions for that situation?
No budget as far as she knows
 
What Can We Do to Help

How often do you want to be in contact throughout this process? What is the best way of doing this (in person, over the phone, via email, snapchat, etc.)
 However much is required 

How would we be able to volunteer at the shelter?
Whenever it’s convenient for you
Maybe on Thursday
Survey being sent out anyway
 

