
WINTER SANCTUARY
SCHEDULING SOFTWARE USER MANUAL




Software and Manual done by
Elvin Shrestha
Ghada Bakbouk
Christian Solorio 
Tess Neau
For the Spring 2018 SCMP 348 class at Kenyon College



TABLE OF CONTENTS
Introduction
Software Requirements
Accessing the Webpage
 Overview of the Webpage
 Main Uses 
	5.1. Searching for a Volunteer
5.2. Scheduling a Volunteer
		5.3. Adding/Deleting/Editing a Volunteer
6. Troubleshooting and Contact Information








Introduction
This is the User Manual for the Winter Sanctuary scheduling software. In this you will find a step-by-step guide to accessing the software, which is built in to a webpage, and using it. Screenshots will be provided with instructions. 
The Winter Sanctuary scheduling webpage has been built to help the Volunteer Coordinator organize and schedule Volunteers with the click of a few buttons. Specifically, with this webpage you can:
Display a clear list of all Volunteers with information such as full name, gender, gender they are willing to work with, address, phone number(s), email(s), background check date, reliability, and special skill(s)
Add/Delete/Edit Volunteer profiles
Search through the list of Volunteers by name and/or day, shift, gender they are willing to work with 
See which shifts already have Volunteer(s) assigned and which don’t on a calendar interface
Assign Volunteers to shifts 
	Because this Software is built into a webpage, you can access the page on any device which has internet, so you could even schedule Volunteers from your mobile device on the go!
2. Software Requirements
Computer with Internet access
3. Accessing the Webpage
	You can access the webpage by copying this link:
http://cslab.kenyon.edu:9008
And typing it (or copy/pasting) into your web browser’s address bar, which is highlighted in the image below and click Enter on the keyboard.




You should now have this page, image to the right, on your web browser.
This is the Scheduling Software page.




4. Overview of the Webpage
Now that we are on the Scheduling Webpage, here is an image to give basic descriptions of the elements on the page. 
“Search All” option
The drop down menu by the “Search” button has a “Search All” clickable button which displays a list of all the Volunteers, their profile information, and options to Edit the profiles (that is covered later in Section 5)
The image to the right shows how to do this.


The “Search All” command should then give you a resulting table as seen in the image above. You can then scroll down or up along the list, ordered by alphabetized  Last Names.

5. Main Uses
5.1. Searching for a Volunteer
We presented the Search All option above but you can use the drop down menu to change that button into a simple “Search”. You can then use the other drop down menus or search bars, each with placeholder text of what they are capable of searching. 
The, click Search and your search results will be filtered accordingly!
5.2. Scheduling a Volunteer
The Volunteer Coordinator (Mollie) can use the embedded Google Calendar on the right side of the page, beneath the search bars, to schedule volunteers directly into their own Google Calendar. 
Click on one of the shifts such as “6:00 am F Volunteer Shift” and you will then have the option of editing this shift as to fill it with a sentence, say “Tom’s shift”.
The Calendar visibility is flexible. On the top right of the Calendar it says “WeekMonthAgenda”. The default format is “Agenda” but you can click on “Week” or                   “Month” in order to get different displays of the Calendar.
5.3. Adding/Deleting/Editing a Volunteer
N/A  yet

6. Troubleshooting and Contact Information
Contact us or James P. Skon for problems of:
Lost password (N/A yet)
Malfunctions
Webpage Errors
Other

Who to Contact:
Team Members at Kenyon College:
Elvin Shrestha (Year ‘20) : shresthae@kenyon.edu 
Ghada Bakbouk (Year ‘20) : bakboukg@kenyon.edu 
Christian Solorio (Year ‘18) : solorioc@kenyon.edu 
Tess Neau (Year ‘18) : neaut@kenyon.edu 
James P. Skon
Professor of Scientific Computing at Kenyon College
Phone number: (740) 427-5369
Email: skonjp@kenyon.edu
